index.md, before:

# knowledge
💡 document everything

<link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" href="./feed.xml">

## About

A collection of tidbits on things I learn

---

## Contents

There are #81 articles

---

## Categories

- [Books](#books)
- [Code Art](#CodeArt)
- [Frontend](#Frontend)
- [Git](#git)
- [Graphics](#graphics)
- [Languages](#languages)
- [Network](#network)
- [Origami](#origami)
- [Philosophy](#philosophy)
- [Postgresql](#postgresql)
- [Psychology](#psychology)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Unix](#unix)
- [Vim](#vim)

---

### Books

This is a partial list of books that I have read

- [Ducks, Newburyport](./books/experimental/ducks-newburyport.yml)
- [Infinite Jest](./books/experimental/infinite-jest.yml)
- [The Myth of Sisyphus](./books/absurdism/the-myth-of-sisyphus.yml)
- [The Sickness Unto Death](./books/absurdism/the-sickness-unto-death.yml)
- [A Confession](./books/existentialism/a-confession.yml)
- [Notes From Underground](./books/existentialism/notes-from-underground.yml)
- [Thus Spoke Zarathustra](./books/philosophy/thus-spoke-zarathustra.yml)
- [Anna Karenina](./books/realism/anna-karenina.yml)
- [Gravity's Rainbow](./books/fiction/gravity-s-rainbow.yml)
- [Name of The Rose](./books/fiction/name-of-the-rose.yml)
- [Moby Dick](./books/fiction/moby-dick.yml)

---

### CodeArt

- [Code Art Secrets](./code-art/code-art-secrets.md)
- [Avatar Generator](./code-art/avatar-generator.md)

---

### Design

- [Covariance and Contravariance](./design/covariance-and-contravariance.md)
- [Law of Demeter.md](./design/law-of-demeter.md)

---

### Euler Research

- [Heighway Dragon](./euler-research/heighway-dragon/README.md)

---

### Frontend

- [Request Animation Frame](./frontend/browser/raf.md)
- [React Froward Ref](./frontend/react/forward-ref.md)

---

### Git

- [Co authoring Commits](./git/co-authoring-commits.md)
- [Update branch with upstream](./git/update-branch.md)
- [Check out a PR](./git/checkout-pr.md)

---

### Graphics

- [Three JS](./graphics/three-js.md)
- [Creating a trapezoid](./graphics/creating-a-trapezoid.md)

---

### Languages

- [Using C Libraries in Go](./languages/go/cgo/using-c-libraries-in-go.md)
- [Using Go Libraries in C](./languages/go/cgo/using-go-libraries-in-c.md)
- [Compiling Go for ARM](./languages/go/cross-compilation/ARM.md)
- [Typescript Conditional Typing](./languages/typescript/conditional-typing.md)
- [Compiling Rust for ARM](./languages/rust/cross-compilation/ARM.md)
- [Rust Unsafe](./languages/rust/unsafe.md)
- [JAR Packing Java](./languages/java/jar-packing.md)

---

### Network

- [Gopher Protocol](./network/gopher.md)

---

### Origami

#### Origami Units

##### Units

- [Litte Unit](./origami/units/little-unit.md)
- [Nick Robinson's Trimodule](./origami/units/nick-trimodule.md)
- [Oxi Unit](./origami/units/oxi.md)
- [Sonobe Unit](./origami/units/sonobe.md)
- [TSU Unit](./origami/units/tsu.md)

##### Cubes

- [Gyroscope](./origami/cubes/gyroscope.md)

##### Intersectional planes

- [XYZ](./origami/intersectional/planes/xyz.md)

##### Fractals

- [Menger Sponge](./origami/fractals/menger-sponge.md)

##### Icosahedron

- [Gallery](./origami/icosahedron/index.md)
- [Sonobe Icosahedron](./origami/icosahedron/sonobe.md)
- [Trimodule Icosahedron](./origami/icosahedron/trimodule.md)

##### Tesslations

- [Clover Tesslation](./origami/tesslation/clover.md)
- [Square Interlace Tesslation](./origami/tesslation/square_interlace.md)

##### Spiral

- [Navel Shell](./origami/spiral/navel.md)

##### Curlicue

- [Curlicue](./origami/curlicue/curlicue.md)

---

### Math

- [Ortho Latin Square](./math/ortho-latin-square.md)
- [Perlin Noise](./math/perlin-noise.md)
- [Kummer's Theorm](./math/kummer.md)
- [Wilson's Theorm](./math/wilson.md)

---

### Philosophy

- [Mu](./philosophy/mu.md)
- [Absurdism](./philosophy/absurdism.md)
- [Existentialism](./philosophy/existentialism.md)

---

### Psychology

- [Pygmalion Effect](./psychology/pygmalion-effect.md)

---

### Postgresql

- [pg_ctl](./postgres/pgctl.md)
- [Template Databases](./postgres/template_databases.md)
- [Understanding sort](./postgres/query-sort.md)

---

### Tools

- [Dracula](./tools/dracula.md)
- [Scanning local network IPs with NMap](./tools/nmap.md)
- [Convert Video format with ffmpeg](./tools/ffmpeg.md)
- [Resize Image with Convert](./tools/convert.md)

---

### Unix

- [Cron](./unix/cron.md)
- [Difference between glibc and libc6](./unix/diff-libgc-and-libc6.md)
- [Difference between guneabi vs gnueabihf](./unix/gnueabi-vs-gnueabihf.md)
- [Makefile](./unix/makefile.md)
- [SSH Identity](./unix/ssh-identity.md)
- [Systemd](./unix/systemd.md)
- [xargs](./unix/xargs.md)
- [Generate Locale](./unix/locale.md)
- [Changing Ownership](./unix/chown.md)
- [Setting path of dynamic libraries](./unix/dylib_path.md)
- [Makefile macros](./unix/makefile_macros.md)
- [Change Shell](./unix/change-shell.md)
- [Understanding Wifi](./unix/understanding-wifi.md)
- [Ansi Colors](./unix/ansi-colors.md)
- [Users and Groups](./unix/user-group.md)
- [Shebang](./unix/shebang.md)
- [IO Uring](./unix/io-uring.md)

---

### Vim

- [How to exit vim](./vim/how-to-close.md)
- [Vim packages](./vim/vim-packages.md)
- [Find and Replace](./vim/find-and-replace.md)
- [Visual Mode](./vim/visual-mode.md)

---

## Credits

Inspired by
- [yoshuawuyts](https://github.com/yoshuawuyts/knowledge)
- [jbranchaud](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til)

Commit message:

Add notes on explain postgresql

index.md, after:

# knowledge
💡 document everything

<link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" href="./feed.xml">

## About

A collection of tidbits on things I learn

---

## Contents

There are #83 articles

---

## Categories

- [Books](#books)
- [Code Art](#CodeArt)
- [Frontend](#Frontend)
- [Git](#git)
- [Graphics](#graphics)
- [Languages](#languages)
- [Network](#network)
- [Origami](#origami)
- [Philosophy](#philosophy)
- [Postgresql](#postgresql)
- [Psychology](#psychology)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Unix](#unix)
- [Vim](#vim)

---

### Books

This is a partial list of books that I have read

- [Ducks, Newburyport](./books/experimental/ducks-newburyport.yml)
- [Infinite Jest](./books/experimental/infinite-jest.yml)
- [The Myth of Sisyphus](./books/absurdism/the-myth-of-sisyphus.yml)
- [The Sickness Unto Death](./books/absurdism/the-sickness-unto-death.yml)
- [A Confession](./books/existentialism/a-confession.yml)
- [Notes From Underground](./books/existentialism/notes-from-underground.yml)
- [Thus Spoke Zarathustra](./books/philosophy/thus-spoke-zarathustra.yml)
- [Anna Karenina](./books/realism/anna-karenina.yml)
- [Gravity's Rainbow](./books/fiction/gravity-s-rainbow.yml)
- [Name of The Rose](./books/fiction/name-of-the-rose.yml)
- [Moby Dick](./books/fiction/moby-dick.yml)

---

### CodeArt

- [Code Art Secrets](./code-art/code-art-secrets.md)
- [Avatar Generator](./code-art/avatar-generator.md)

---

### Design

- [Covariance and Contravariance](./design/covariance-and-contravariance.md)
- [Law of Demeter.md](./design/law-of-demeter.md)

---

### Euler Research

- [Heighway Dragon](./euler-research/heighway-dragon/README.md)

---

### Frontend

- [Request Animation Frame](./frontend/browser/raf.md)
- [React Froward Ref](./frontend/react/forward-ref.md)

---

### Git

- [Co authoring Commits](./git/co-authoring-commits.md)
- [Update branch with upstream](./git/update-branch.md)
- [Check out a PR](./git/checkout-pr.md)

---

### Graphics

- [Three JS](./graphics/three-js.md)
- [Creating a trapezoid](./graphics/creating-a-trapezoid.md)

---

### Languages

- [Using C Libraries in Go](./languages/go/cgo/using-c-libraries-in-go.md)
- [Using Go Libraries in C](./languages/go/cgo/using-go-libraries-in-c.md)
- [Compiling Go for ARM](./languages/go/cross-compilation/ARM.md)
- [Typescript Conditional Typing](./languages/typescript/conditional-typing.md)
- [Compiling Rust for ARM](./languages/rust/cross-compilation/ARM.md)
- [Rust Unsafe](./languages/rust/unsafe.md)
- [JAR Packing Java](./languages/java/jar-packing.md)

---

### Network

- [Gopher Protocol](./network/gopher.md)

---

### Origami

#### Origami Units

##### Units

- [Litte Unit](./origami/units/little-unit.md)
- [Nick Robinson's Trimodule](./origami/units/nick-trimodule.md)
- [Oxi Unit](./origami/units/oxi.md)
- [Sonobe Unit](./origami/units/sonobe.md)
- [TSU Unit](./origami/units/tsu.md)

##### Cubes

- [Gyroscope](./origami/cubes/gyroscope.md)

##### Intersectional planes

- [XYZ](./origami/intersectional/planes/xyz.md)

##### Fractals

- [Menger Sponge](./origami/fractals/menger-sponge.md)

##### Icosahedron

- [Gallery](./origami/icosahedron/index.md)
- [Sonobe Icosahedron](./origami/icosahedron/sonobe.md)
- [Trimodule Icosahedron](./origami/icosahedron/trimodule.md)

##### Tesslations

- [Clover Tesslation](./origami/tesslation/clover.md)
- [Square Interlace Tesslation](./origami/tesslation/square_interlace.md)

##### Spiral

- [Navel Shell](./origami/spiral/navel.md)

##### Curlicue

- [Curlicue](./origami/curlicue/curlicue.md)

---

### Math

- [Ortho Latin Square](./math/ortho-latin-square.md)
- [Perlin Noise](./math/perlin-noise.md)
- [Kummer's Theorm](./math/kummer.md)
- [Wilson's Theorm](./math/wilson.md)

---

### Philosophy

- [Mu](./philosophy/mu.md)
- [Absurdism](./philosophy/absurdism.md)
- [Existentialism](./philosophy/existentialism.md)

---

### Psychology

- [Pygmalion Effect](./psychology/pygmalion-effect.md)

---

### Postgresql

- [References and Blogs](./postgres/index.md)
- [pg_ctl](./postgres/pgctl.md)
- [Template Databases](./postgres/template_databases.md)
- [Explain on sort](./postgres/explain-sort.md)
- [Explain on Join](./postgres/explain-join.md)

---

### Tools

- [Dracula](./tools/dracula.md)
- [Scanning local network IPs with NMap](./tools/nmap.md)
- [Convert Video format with ffmpeg](./tools/ffmpeg.md)
- [Resize Image with Convert](./tools/convert.md)

---

### Unix

- [Cron](./unix/cron.md)
- [Difference between glibc and libc6](./unix/diff-libgc-and-libc6.md)
- [Difference between guneabi vs gnueabihf](./unix/gnueabi-vs-gnueabihf.md)
- [Makefile](./unix/makefile.md)
- [SSH Identity](./unix/ssh-identity.md)
- [Systemd](./unix/systemd.md)
- [xargs](./unix/xargs.md)
- [Generate Locale](./unix/locale.md)
- [Changing Ownership](./unix/chown.md)
- [Setting path of dynamic libraries](./unix/dylib_path.md)
- [Makefile macros](./unix/makefile_macros.md)
- [Change Shell](./unix/change-shell.md)
- [Understanding Wifi](./unix/understanding-wifi.md)
- [Ansi Colors](./unix/ansi-colors.md)
- [Users and Groups](./unix/user-group.md)
- [Shebang](./unix/shebang.md)
- [IO Uring](./unix/io-uring.md)

---

### Vim

- [How to exit vim](./vim/how-to-close.md)
- [Vim packages](./vim/vim-packages.md)
- [Find and Replace](./vim/find-and-replace.md)
- [Visual Mode](./vim/visual-mode.md)

---

## Credits

Inspired by
- [yoshuawuyts](https://github.com/yoshuawuyts/knowledge)
- [jbranchaud](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til)
